Well, our text is taken from Jesus' illustration about the sheep and the goats.
So let's open our Bibles to Matthew chapter 25 and consider features of this illustration that teach us about our King Jesus.
Now, he directed this illustration to those who have the hope of living forever here on the earth.
The events are yet future. Verse 31 describes when they take place.
It says, when the Son of Man comes in his glory and he will sit down on his glorious throne, he does that to judge all the people on the earth.
Now, the basis for that everlasting judgment, either everlasting life or everlasting destruction, has to do with how individuals treat Christ's brothers.
And as we know, the primary way that we can support Christ's brothers has to do with the preaching work. That's a need that they all have.
But the illustration also applies to the individual support that we might render to individual members of the anointed.
Now, Jesus presents this illustration in a way that encourages us to provide loyal support to Christ's brothers.
So let's consider two things. First, how does Jesus in this illustration show his love and concern for the anointed?
And second, how does he demonstrate that he wants all of us anointed and other sheep to succeed?
Well, let's consider the first point how this illustration teaches us about Jesus' care for the anointed.
Jesus makes it clear that he is concerned about each one of them.
Take a look at verses 35 through 40 of the illustration.
Jesus says, for I became hungry and you gave me something to eat.
I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink.
I was a stranger and you received me hospitably naked and you clothed me.
I fell sick and you looked after me. I was in prison and you visited me.
Then the righteous ones will answer him with the words, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you or thirsty and give you something to drink?
When did we see you a stranger and receive you hospitably or naked and clothed you?
When did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?
In reply, the King will say to them, truly, I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.
The dialogue that Jesus uses here in the illustration first with a sheep and then later with the goats emphasizes his care about all of the anointed.
The parable lists six things that they face, situations that they may encounter.
Jesus has that list repeated four times.
He mentions it twice and he has the sheep and the goats, both repeated.
Clearly, Jesus is concerned with what is happening with the anointed.
He knows that since the last days began, they have been the object of Satan's wrath.
Revelation chapter 12 verse 17 says that the Satan is waging war against them because they have the work of bearing witness to Jesus.
So Jesus knows what they face as a group, but he's also concerned about what they deal with individually.
Notice verses 40 and then verse 45. Jesus uses the expression, the least of these my brothers or the least ones.
Now the study note says in verse 40 for the plural term brother that that can refer to both men and women.
And by stating the least of these, Jesus showed that he wasn't just focusing on those who have heavy theocratic responsibilities.
No, he was aware of what was going on with all of his brothers, even those who may have been insignificant to others.
Jesus views what happens even to these ones as though it happened to him.
Jesus thus dignifies all of his brothers.
He doesn't focus on their privileges. He focuses on their relationship with him.
And he emphasizes this further in the wording of this illustration.
Notice again, verse 40 and verse 45, you see the expression truly, I say to you, that was an expression that Jesus used to demonstrate the absolute reliability or truthfulness of what he said.
So Jesus wanted all of the anointed to know that he cared about them. He was aware of what they were dealing with.
And that's good for us to know because it lets us know that whatever we do in behalf of the anointed, Jesus is aware of it and he considers it as done just to him.
Now that brings us to the second thing that we learn. Jesus wants us to succeed. He wants the anointed to succeed.
He demonstrated that he knew what they were facing, but he also emphasized that they would get the help that they need.
There would always be righteous people here on the earth to help them.
And that applies not just to the preaching work. We know that there are millions of people supporting the preaching work, supporting branch operations, Kingdom Hall construction projects, providing financial support.
But it also applies to the individual needs that they might have.
If they get sick, if they're persecuted, if they get rejected, if they're worried about their family members, whatever need that they have, Jesus words indicate that there will always be individuals who will provide support.
The anointed will always have what they need to succeed.
And Jesus wants the other sheep to succeed too. Notice how he described what they would need to do. He described it as giving a drink, feeding, clothing, visiting the sick.
Now these are all things that a right-hearted person would want to do, find happiness in doing. These are things that Christians are obligated to do.
What's the point? Jesus didn't describe what we needed to do in grandiose terms.
As though we had to climb a mountain or travel some great distance. No, he used simple everyday things. Things that all of us can do.
And doesn't that describe the preaching work? All of us can engage in the preaching work, no matter where we are.
And doing good to Christ's brothers would not depend on where we serve.
Verse 32 says that Jesus is evaluating people of all the nations all over the planet.
And it's good for us to remember that here at Bethel. You know, we greatly appreciate our privileges of service.
We know that we're having a big share in supporting the preaching work.
And we know that Bethel also gives us a unique opportunity at times to assist brothers, anointed brothers, personally helping individuals in the ways that Jesus described.
And we cherish those privileges.
But the reality is we don't all have the same opportunities to render such aid directly.
A lot may depend on what our particular Simon is or what the needs are. And our work here at Bethel may change.
Yet according to Jesus' illustration, doing good to the least of Christ's brothers does not depend on where we serve.
Jesus doesn't want us to be discouraged about what we can't do. He wants us to focus on what we can do.
And no matter where we are, no matter who we are, we can all do something for Christ's brothers.
And when we do, our King considers it as though it were done to him.
So this illustration deals with a weighty topic, the everlasting destiny of billions of people.
But the way that Jesus delivers this information draws us closer to him.
We see his deep concern for the anointed and that encourages them.
And it also gives us motivation to loyally support them.
And Jesus also demonstrates that he wants us all to exceed anointed and other sheep.
Now as we approach the memorial, there will be even other opportunities for this illustration to come and be important to us.